I hope to die on the job. [laughter] The
narrative that connects AI to job loss
for many of the CEOs that are doing it,
um, it is just too lazy. Well, China is
going to be everybody's greatest rival.
>> Jensen, thank you so much for joining
us.
>> Victoria, it's great to be with you.
>> Yeah. You know, in today's world, it's
hard to imagine AI without you and
Nvidia. So can you share with us your
vision of this AI revolution and where
will we be five years from now?
>> AI is a revolutionary technology. No, no
question. Um just like the invention of
uh information technology with IBM and
the personal computer with Microsoft and
Intel and of course Taiwan was central
to that. um the internet uh mobile cloud
and now here we are with artificial
intelligence. The the big breakthrough
of artificial intelligence is on
multiple levels. On the one hand, it's a
brand new uh technology that is able to
enable a whole new class of applications
that were impossible before because you
can now understand information, you can
reason, you can plan to come up with a
action plan and and even now with
agentic AI, you can take action, use
tools and so so the applications of
artificial intelligence just like humans
are quite vast and almost boundless in
potential.
But artificial intelligence is more
important than that even you know unlike
unlike um many new technologies.
Artificial intelligence opens up a whole
new industry and a good framework to
think about for artificial intelligence
is that AI is not just a model. AI is
really a five layer cake to think about
it um from the lowest level. It requires
energy because AI is produced generated
in real time just like you and I right
now we need calories we need energy so
that we can engage each other and
produce generate intelligence generate
answers based on the question you just
asked me and and I'm and I can generate
it for the very first time in this way
based on the fact that um I'm with the
audience of CNA and I'm here in Taipei
and so the context is different the the
circumstances are different so the
answer is different and so we need
energy at the lowest level for this
industry the next level is chips this is
where Nvidia is and where a lot of the
companies in Taiwan are in and the layer
above that is infrastructure land power
data center as well as the cloud service
software that turns the chips into a
cloud service into a data center the
layer Above that is where most people
think about when they think about AI
which is models. ChatGBT was
revolutionary. Um uh Claude code is now
incredibly successful. Um but AI is much
more than just human language. AI can
process information of almost any kind
from English and Chinese um all the way
to videos and images but very
importantly proteins and chemicals and
uh three-dimensional geometry which is
really important for manufacturing which
is important here in Taiwan. And so
that's the model layer. Then above that
ultimately that's the the most important
which is how does all of these this AI
technology impact society in a in a
positive way and so that would be
applications for uh information workers
like ourselves and I use AI every day
you probably use AI every day um but
it's much more than that it's you know
software engineers and chip designers
and manufacturing managers and plant
managers all the way to of course
self-driving cars and robotics and
healthcare and just about every large
industry in the world is going to be
impacted by this and it will be
revolutionized by this. And so the the
thing that's really really helpful for
for me is to take a step back and look
at AI not in the context of just the
model but look at it in the context of
the whole industry. And when you do
that, you come to realize that AI is
reinventing every industry from energy
all the way to all of the applications
above.
>> And you've talked about agentic AI. Now
in simple terms, what is it and uh how
will it change the game?
>> Agentic AI is called agentic AI for its
agency. Agency simply means it has the
ability to do things autonomously
with very little supervision or a lot of
supervision just like just like people
and so agentic agentic pipeline uh has
several stages one it starts with what
is the context what's the environment
what's the circumstance and what is
being asked of what are you asking this
AI to do and so you start with you are
an excellent
uh news reporter, you know, or you're an
excellent software engineer and I would
like you to uh access these files, use
this as an example, and I would like you
to write the software for example or
write the story with me. And so that's
the context in the request. From that,
it has to understand the context. It has
to plan its work. It has to use whatever
tools that it uses. It could be a
browser. It could be a word document, a
word editor. It could be um a C
compiler. It could be a Python, you
know, editor. It could be it could be a
a CUDA program, for example. And so it
could figure out a way uh you could use
these different tools and then it would
perform and then it would evaluate,
re-evaluate, replan,
exercise, you know, act again, evaluate
and just keep iterating until it gets
the job done. just like just like um
just like we do. And so it performs the
task autonomously which is the reason
why we say it's agents. Agents has two
forms. There's a there's the the digital
version that we call AI agents. In the
future, these AI agents would also run
inside a physical body, for example, a
robot. So a robot is essentially a
physical AI agent. And so these two
these two examples of autonomous systems
will likely be highly generalized and
very exciting.
>> Could that make human lazier thinkers?
Because if everyone has a powerful
assistant, then what happens to mastery?
>> Well, I think you could use history as a
guide.
Um when the personal computer came
along, I think that everybody said uh is
that going to make people lazier as a
result because so much of work is going
to be so many tasks will be automated
and then when the internet came along
are are people going to stop being smart
because all the information is at their
fingertips
and and then before you know it mobile
cloud came along so it's actually in our
pocket so we don't have to remember
anything anymore. And um uh we have so
many automation capabilities the the
performance of a computer increased by a
million times during during this time.
Do we find ourselves busier or less
busy? And I think the answer is we found
ourselves busier. And the reason for
that is because we became more
ambitious. The type of things that we
could do is greater than ever. Our
students today that are graduating,
they're a hundred times smarter than
when I graduated. The what they know,
what they can do, their exposure to the
world, the knowledge they have, the
wisdom that they somehow imbued. Um, all
of that all of that capability was made
possible because of information
technology, but it hasn't made them, you
know, any less busy. I think you and I
would admit we're busier than ever. And
so I think the same thing is going to
happen to artificial intelligence. We're
we're in our jobs in our lives. We have
many tasks and it's really a basket of
tasks. You know, a job is like a basket
of tasks, many small components of
things that in totality
brings meaning to our work. It allows us
to achieve our purpose of our of our of
our work. So for example, a radiologist
looks at the images, the scans of maybe
ultrasounds or CT or MRIs, but that's
the task that they do. And now it's
completely AI automated, but their
purpose is really to diagnose disease,
help patients get well, help them
understand their disease better. So the
purpose of a job is a collection of of
tasks, a basket of tasks. Many of those
tasks will be automated and my sense is
that as a result
um of automation, we can focus on the
harder parts of our work and the harder
parts of our work elevate is elevated as
a result. We could be more ambitious. My
guess is that we'll probably be busier.
The opposite I just said the opposite of
what most people say. And um I have
live, you know, I'm living proof of it.
You are living proof of it.
And speaking of jobs, everyone is
curious. U we are seeing more and more
companies cutting jobs while they're
investing heavily in AI. So on a scale
of 1 to 10, how inevitable are job cuts
because of AI? And what do you say to
people who are afraid of losing their
jobs to AI?
>> I would say to the people who are
worried about losing their jobs to AI to
learn AI. You're not going to lose your
jobs to AI. You're gonna lose your job
to somebody who learned AI better than
you.
When the PC came along, the PC didn't
take people's jobs. The people who
didn't learn how to use PCs were left
behind. You know, when the computers
came along, the computer industry, I had
the benefit of being swept along with
this incredible growth of this industry.
I could have of course rejected it and
went to another field where the
computers was not involved and I could
have been left behind. And so my
recommendation is don't allow yourself
to be left behind by AI. Now let's talk
about let's talk about what's going on.
Um it is very it's more likely
that the companies with ambition
will be more productive. They will do
things faster. their company would
increase in velocity. As a result, they
become larger, more profitable. When
they become larger and more profitable,
they'll end up hiring more people. And
and um uh of course, they'll use more
AI, but they'll also hire more people.
Nvidia today has AI all over our
company. We're hiring more people. We're
moving faster. We're more and more
ambitious. The type of things that we
used to think was going to take 10
years, I now think is going to take one
or two years. And so your ambition has
to be elevated by the technology of the
time. If you don't engage the technology
of your time, you'll just simply be left
behind. And so my recommendation is to
engage it. Now the future the future
when people think about job loss and AI
um there what they see is that that
there's only so much work in the world
world to do. There's so much only so
many stories to write only so much code
to write only so many products to design
only so many things to enjoy and that is
completely obviously false. the number
the our ambition if great then
automation and AI which is the ultimate
version of automation would elevate your
company would elevate GDP as a result
you know we should be be able to bring
more prosperity
>> but what kind of jobs do you envision
that AI would create
>> well look at all the jobs that are being
created already number one remember I
gave you the framework of AI AI is a
five layer
It needs energy. The country, the
company, the region,
Taiwan, the island, if limited by by
energy would simply be left behind. You
need energy in order to enjoy this new
industry. And when you have energ when
you need them AI is now so much market
driven uh initiatives so much market
driven incentives that the amount of in
investment going into the energy sector
is upgrading our energy grid. It's
investing in sustainable energy all by
itself for the first time. All you have
to do is look at the stock price of all
of my partners, GE, Verova, you know,
Mitsubishi, uh, Seammens, everybody,
their anybody who's in the power
generation, energy generation industry,
their stock prices are going up, they're
hiring more people, their revenues are
increasing, the utilities um are seeing
so many opportunities to invest in their
power grid. The next layer up is chips.
Every single partner of Nvidia stock
price has tripled in just a couple of
years. I'm so happy to see everybody's
success. And so everything from AI chips
to DRAMs to of course TSMC and packaging
and power regulators and cooling systems
and you name it. Even multi-layer
ceramic ceram ceramic capacitors uh
incredible success. And so you could see
it's of course creating a lot of jobs.
The next layer above that is
infrastructure. Look at how many data
centers are being built around the
world. How much land being dedicated to
building data centers. And so
electricians and plumbers and
construction workers, architects and
designers and technicians and networking
engineers, just the number of jobs be
hundreds of thousands just in the United
States alone. And so probably millions
around the world. And then just keep
going up every single layer. And then
one more statistic. Last year was the
single largest year of venture capital
investments in human history.
$100 billion in just one year went into
AI native companies. Whole bunch of jobs
being created. And so there's there's
absolutely every single evidence that AI
is creating jobs. And one of my
favorites is literally radiology. If you
look at radiology and all the
radiologists looking at war stations,
looking for disease, looking for
anomalies in the scans, in the last 5
years, in the last 10 years, it was
predicted that it would be the first job
to completely be wiped out. Well, the
researcher who made that prediction was
absolutely right. AI has completely
revolutionized radiology. AI has
integrated into radiology in every
single respect. However, the number of
radiologists grew, the demand for
radiologists increased and the pay of
radiologists went up. And so my point is
it is very more it's more likely that AI
will elevate your job, elevate the
purpose of your job if you became expert
at it. Try to engage it. Don't be afraid
of it. Of course, the industry has to be
really thoughtful about building AI in a
safe way, in a guardrailed way, and make
sure that it's deployed in a proper way,
and that and that the end applications,
whether it's in healthcare or
transportation or manufacturing or you
know, air travel or whatever it is that
applies AI, those industries have lots
of regulations already and they should
re-evaluate the regulations to be AI
ready, to be AI prepared. And so um
everybody has to be part of this. You
might remember some stories of the past.
Um so for example when the automobile
came along
and of course there was a entire
industry of horses and carriages and and
that industry was quite large. Of course
they've been around a long long time
hundreds of years. And then of course
the invention of the of the car of the
automobile came along. Well, because
it's so transformative, every
infrastructure had to be reinvented.
Number one, a whole bunch of new
factories created a whole bunch of jobs.
Every single road had to be enhanced.
The old roads were problematic. New
social norms. For example, for a while
there uh it was believed that cars were
killing children. Cars were somehow
killing children. And what was
discovered was because in the olden
times children would literally play in
the streets. I still remember when I
grew up I just played in the streets.
And so children would play in the
streets. And of course when cars came
along many of them uh didn't realize it
and they were they were got themselves
injured. And so new norms uh pedestrian
laws pedestrian rules I guess sidewalks
you know so on so forth. And so we built
up all these different social
infrastructure
um uh and uh new technologies with
self-breaking and so on so forth. All of
these technologies and of course social
norms to to know don't run into the
streets you know and so so all of those
different different um conditions had to
be uh built up to support a whole
industry. Electricity was the same way
and so on so forth that artificial
intelligence will be the same as well.
And for all the parents out there, what
do you suggest their kids should be
studying in order to stay relevant in
the age of AI?
>> I think that it won't matter. All the
things that used to matter are still
things that are going to matter in the
future. For example, uh uh broadcasts,
news, newscasters. Uh it will be just as
important to inform people as the past
uh to know what questions to ask. You've
prepared a lot of questions, but the
best reporters and the best interviewers
are the ones that are prepared, but
you're also staying in the moment,
listening to my question and picking up
on something that maybe the audience
would be interested in. And so, you're
thinking about multiple things at
exactly the same time, just like I'm
doing right now. I'm thinking about the
audience. I'm listening to the
questions. I'm considering everything
that's happening in the world at the
moment. and the question the answers to
my question has to be consistent with
that and so all of that is completely
true still the ability to tell a story
for an audience um will remain um just
as important in the future as it is
today uh whether it's it's a uh arts the
arts will be just as important
wobbishabi the beauty of imperfection
will probably be even more important in
the future than today and so making
movies um you know designing cars and
making chips will all still be as
important as you know as the past. Yeah.
Yeah. So whatever you decide is your
passion uh the only one thing that you
have to do is to make sure that you ask
yourself how can AI help elevate my
learning my craft you know my purpose.
>> Now let's talk about China. You were in
Beijing with President Trump recently.
Can you take us through your trip on Air
Force One and the meetings on the
ground? What are some of your biggest
takeaways? First of all, it was a it was
a great honor to represent the United
States and it was a great honor for for
me to accommodate accompany uh President
Trump. He called me in the morning. He
he didn't realize I wasn't going and um
uh and he he insisted I get on the plane
and uh go. And so I packed up in a
hurry. He called me in the morning as he
was leaving uh and uh he thought I was
in Washington DC to jump on Air Force
One, but I was in the West Coast. And so
he he told me just you know uh meet me
in Alaska. And so so I flew Alaska,
jumped on Air Force One and uh went to
China. Um I I was there I was there with
16 I think other CEOs and uh and it
represents um quite a large collection
of great companies um from uh consumer
electronics of course to uh industrials
and automotive and and all the way to
financials and um and and biotech and
and so it was a large large collection
of industry that was represented and and
the conversations were were um uh one uh
really really welcomed uh uh President
Xi um uh Premier Lee Chang were
extremely welcoming and they spoke about
uh cooperation and a stable relationship
and um and that that um China would be
an open market and even o more wide open
than before uh encouraged investment and
um uh and then that we were there to to
really uh uh represent the United States
support the president and um they had
wonderful meetings. Uh they were they uh
uh were extremely cordial. Um the uh the
feelings were great and um uh and the
pump and circumstance and uh all of the
festiv festivities were were quite
impressive. But that was it. That was
basically it. I was there for a couple
days. Uh we didn't sleep for a couple of
days and and [clears throat] then I uh
when President Trump left left to go go
go back home uh I went went to uh went
to uh Oldtown Beijing to enjoy some nice
meals.
>> How was that?
>> It was great. It was great. Yeah, it was
people were very nice and um
uh and uh uh anyhow was it was a really
really great experience. But reports
suggest that China hasn't purchased any
of the Nvidia's H200 chips um despite US
export approval. Now um so you have also
said that Nvidia has stepped back from
China um as it pushes for its own chips.
Could that actually um eventually make
China your greatest uh rival?
Um well, China is going to be
everybody's greatest rival. I mean that
that goes without saying because they
have so they have such um such an
extraordinary uh local market that is
completely uniform just like United
States uh every single state speaks
English. uh China every province speaks
Chinese and that's a a substantial
advantage uh versus Europe where every
single country speaks a different
language and and or uh countries where
where everybody spoke this speaks the
same language but the market's not very
big and so these two countries United
States and China uh have a substantial
advantage because of that reason large
population very well educated um the the
uh the science technology and math of of
uh Chinese students is extraordinary and
they produce it at very high volumes,
large volumes. Uh Chinua universities
and many of the other universities are
worldclass in science and technology
today and so so one you have to
recognize uh the country is large. It's
it's a has a uni uniform culture. Um and
so uh uh and they they uh have really
treasured and valued science and
technology. The companies are very
competitive, super vibrant.
uh incredible companies from uh Alibaba
to Xiaomi to Tencent uh BU and these
amazing companies large and also so many
small companies uh that are so vibrant
and and so I think it goes without
saying that that China's uh pace of
innovation and um its own natural
resources including its pe people and
its culture u will will and will almost
certainly uh guarantee that China will
compete with every industry and they are
very competitive and so so I think that
goes without saying. Um with with um
with respect to us I
um we're not stepping back from China.
Uh I I would say I would say that the
Chinese government uh when we were
banned from going to United going to
China uh through export controls uh it
left a vacuum that the Chinese companies
were able to fill and uh as a result
Huawei and many of the startup companies
in in China had record years. uh they
are now growing at an incredible pace
and and in our absence uh even though
Nvidia's technology is better uh it is
in our absence um available technology
is the best we can get and it's plenty
good and so so I think I think um my
only statement was that that the Chinese
government is is um understandably um as
every government would and should uh
encourage and want to have conditions
for their local companies to be
successful. However, uh I also believe
that Nvidia could add an enormous amount
of value to the Chinese market and it's
good for the United States and uh
President Trump has been very clear that
he wants uh uh American companies to
succeed all over the world just as every
every country should uh every country
should maximize exports. every company,
every country should um uh want their
companies to succeed worldwide and and
uh and so it's sensible that that United
States would want Nvidia to go back to
uh and serve serve every single market.
Uh for China, Nvidia's technology uh
competes with one layer of the five of
the five layer cake. We compete with one
layer of the five layer cake. But don't
forget AI is a five layer cake. And so
when when Nvidia is participating in
China and serving the Chinese market as
we have in the in the past, it supports
the expansion of the other five layers.
And so when you look at look at the
market in a more holistic way and and I
and I surely believe that the the the
leaders uh will and the local markets
will when you look at it in the holistic
way, Infinity could be of great service
to that industry and we could add a lot
of value uh to the China market as well.
And so so I think when when our when
Nvidia grows, the entire supply chain
grows. Uh when Nvidia grows, uh as you
as you see, we lift all of Taiwan with
us and and so uh Nvidia succeeding
around the world will be great for the
supply chain and it will be great for
all the local markets. Well, would you
say that we're seeing the rise of two
separate AI u ecosystems, one led by the
US and the other by China and can they
coexist?
>> Um it is possible that that uh two AI
ecosystems are created but it's not
wise.
Uh AI is obviously very very uh uh
capable technology. It's transformative
technology and it's dual use. On the one
hand, uh its incredible potential for
good is unbelievable and its
demonstration and transformative
capabilities for good is already
demonstrated to be incredible and and I
and I have every confidence that it will
continue to do so. On the other hand, it
could also be used in all kinds of uh
other ways. It could be used for uh ways
that that um could bring harm. And so
the more the more that the world leaders
in technology as well as in in pol in in
in uh uh social leaders and political
leaders that the more that all the
leaders uh work together,
cooperate together to advance this
technology uh in harmony and for good,
the better it will be for the future.
And so I I have every I believe that
that uh China and United States should
cooperate in AI, not just compete in AI.
And it is possible to do both. I work
with so many competitors today. They're
competitors of mine, but I also compete
with them on the one hand, and we c
cooperate greatly on the other hand,
because we want what's in the best
interest of the industry. We want what's
in the best interest of the market. We
want what's best interest for society.
And so therefore cooperating ensures
that harmonious advance. And so I I
think that um it is absolutely true for
AI that on the one hand we compete on
the other hand we should absolutely
cooperate.
>> And we know that Taiwan sits in the
center of the global supply chain. And
what do you what kind of role do you
think Taiwan plays in the AI race and
how long do you think Taiwan can
maintain that advantage? Well, Taiwan
has the letters AI in it. And so AI is
at the center of Taiwan and this this uh
the companies on this island are are
incredible. As you know, the companies
are at the epicenter of the uh the uh
possibility of AI and the growth of AI,
the advancement of AI. uh in the last
several years uh several things are
happening at the same time. On the one
hand, supply chains have to be
diversified because the world supply
chain is so broad, so large and because
AI, the computer is not just a tool for
you and I anymore. the computer what
Nvidia makes is now a factory
and infrastructure for the world and and
therefore the supply chain by nature
would have to be more resilient more
diversified because it's going to be so
large and so on the on the one hand uh
the supply chain is diversifying around
the world fabs are being built all
around the world chip plants packaging
plants computer plants are being built
all around the world on the one hand on
the other hand it's growing incredibly
here in Taiwan the energy pressure is
high the land pressure is high and uh of
course uh Taiwan is extraordinary at
manufacturing
and uh uh and I hope we talk about
robotics and how robotics is going to
revolutionize and transform Taiwan's
ability to continue to grow at an
incredible pace. uh no no no no no no
region uh is is uh uh better prepared
for the continued growth of AI than
Taiwan. And I I I absolutely uh uh
continue to expect Taiwan to grow at an
outpaced, you know, at a very
accelerated pace uh for many years to
come. And um and and it's an investment
of people, you know, of course um at the
scale that we are today. Nvidia is a
multiundred billion dollar company now.
We're one of the largest companies in
the world and we're growing at nearly
100% per year at the scale that we're
talking about. And so the the the
partnerships that we have here in
Taiwan, how they've uh helped me grow
and support our growth is incredible.
And then but the the most important
thing is the investment in people. Uh we
have a very large site here and we're
going to have a much much larger site
here soon.
>> Can you give us a sneak preview on the
investment amount?
>> Well, you know, it's not it's not just
about, you know, the money. I mean, of
course, of course, Nvidia spends
at this point, you know, hundreds of
billions of dollars
in AI infrastructure and most of our
spend is in Taiwan. And so, we've we've
invested through the most the best form
of investment, which is business, uh,
hundreds of billions of dollars into
Taiwan. And if you look at our next
several years, uh, between Grace
Blackwell and Vera Rubin, we have $1
trillion of sales.
One trillion dollars of sales is
hundreds of billions of dollars of
spending equipped revenues that will
come into Taiwan. It's just an
extraordinary number and the highest
ever in history for Taiwan. And so so
that's that's our our best form of
investment. Uh we of course also invest
in companies here. We support them with
prepayments. We support them with
investment in their capital. We support
them with commitments in our purchase.
And then uh my favorite form of
investment is still ultimately people
hiring a lot of engineers here and
having a lot of uh great employees here
in Taiwan. and also among all the
business leaders in Taiwan. I know
you're very close to Morris Chain, TSMC
founder and can you describe your
friendship and also what have you
learned from him?
>> I I learned from him every time I'm with
him. I was with him last night. Uh
Morris Morris and Sophie had my parents
Lori and I and and Madison was with us
as well. We were over to for dinner. We
had a wonderful time together. Um, you
know, of course Morris and I have a lot
in common uh because because uh uh we
grew, you know, I grew up uh with the
support of Morris and and uh when I came
to Taiwan
uh for the first time after
I left when I was five years go five
years old. Uh I came back for the first
time to see Morris and um I've I've been
coming back a lot since then and so so
um you know without without TSMC and
Morris uh Nvidia wouldn't be here today
and it was the support and the
friendship and and the and the risk that
they take and back in the old days when
we were quite small um all all of the
things that that and our growth together
innovation together and and of course uh
the creation of of the AI industry that
we know today together. Um all of that
all of our journey and all of our
history uh are highly intertwined. And
so we we you know we in a lot of ways um
I grew up with the support of Morris and
the support of TSMC. Uh we have a lot of
interest in in how the industry is
forming. Um we have a lot of we have a
lot of interest in in uh ensuring the
continued success uh of the industry.
And of course, you know, we have a lot
of a lot of wonderful life stories to
share with each other. And uh he he's a
he's an incredible uh avid reader. And
so it's always fun to to hear about, you
know, his his uh summaries of the books
that he's read and and um you know, and
and so all of all of that is great. I
always I always treasure my time with
him and he's he's doing great. Uh and um
we always have a nice nice glass of
whiskey together.
>> That's nice. Um, now let's move on to
the fun part. Let's talk about you. Um,
born in Taiwan, lived in Thailand before
moving to the US.
>> How have those experiences shape who you
are today and the way you lead?
>> Uh, I I guess I guess we're all the
products of our parents. Um, my father
is is very technical. I very precise.
uh does work perfectly and uh perfect
handwriting, does everything perfectly,
you know, his his level of craft and
precision and just the way he does
everything in his life um is something
that I had the benefit of learning from
and and uh on the other hand u my mom's
uh obsession for details uh uh just a a
deep obsession for for um you know she
She has a personality that can't let
anything go, you know, and and um in a
lot of ways, I think I've picked up that
part of her her uh her her behavior and
and so, you know, I I can focus on
something for a very long time like it
for 33 years and uh and uh every day I'm
equally obsessed and equally, you know,
equally uh intense about about doing a
good job and and so I think I had the
benefit of of uh uh growing up uh with a
lot of those Taiwanese characteristics,
you know, um they're they're they're
very much like a Taiwanese Taiwanese uh
parent. Um I I also think that that we
grew up they they sacrificed a lot uh
leaving Taiwan and and uh left their
left families behind and uh they went to
Thailand with very little and they went
to United States with nothing. And so um
when they went to United States uh we
were basically alone. Uh there were no
friends, no family uh you know to be
there with us and um
and because they were they were so
modest uh and we had so little uh and
and uh uh living in the United States
going from Taiwan is is very challenging
because the cost of living is so much
higher and and so I I think I think um
our humble humble uh life and uh uh and
just seeing my parents uh struggle and
and um uh finding a place in in a
strange world uh and the risks that they
took so that we can we can grow up in
America and enjoy the American dream uh
and have the opportunities that led to
led to uh Nvidia today and led to me
today. uh that all of those sacrifices
um uh instills instills a a character in
you. And so uh I'm grateful for uh all
the sacrifices and the hard work that
they they uh uh they made so that I
could be here and so but I think that
that journey was really an important
part. In your company, you're known to
be a tough boss,
>> and you've said that um you rather
torture people to greatness than to fire
them. How exactly do you do that?
>> I Well, it's not it's not physical
torture.
It's it's the it's torture the same way
that Taiwanese parents torture people,
you know. You know, a Taiwanese parent,
it nothing is ever good enough.
Nothing is ever good enough. and and uh
you can't go you can't go a day without
without some criticism.
And that's the Taiwanese way. And I'm
kind of the same way. Uh you can't you
can't show me something without me
giving you some criticism. And and I
guess in a lot of ways that that's
that's my form of torture. You know, I I
will I will give you my feedback um
always always uh immediately. Um I'll
never save it away.
uh once I give you my feedback, just
like a Taiwanese parent, once the
feedback is given, you're back to loving
the person again. And and so you're I'm
I'm always uh I'm always uh uh critical
of of everybody's work so that I can
help them be better. I want them to be
better. I know they could be better. And
and so that's where where it's coming
from. And uh you know, maybe maybe a lot
of that is my Taiwanese parent. And how
do they how do your employees respond to
that?
>> Well, you know, Nvidia's Nvidia's
retention is the best in the world. Uh
uh we have we have employees that have
been with me now for 33 years. And so
people don't people don't uh don't quit
easily from from Nvidia. and and uh uh
you know we my job is to create an
environment where all of these amazing
computer scientists and engineers and um
supply chain experts can come to Nvidia
to do their life's work and that's my
job to create that condition so that
they could realize their dreams just as
that just as they've helped me realize
my dreams and um I and I I think that
that's ultimately the purpose of
leadership is to create the conditions
for other people to realize their
dreams. Uh to to be part of yours, of
course, and to be part of something
bigger. Uh but to to be able to turn
their their what is their job, their
profession, their craft hopefully into
their life's work. And um at NVIDIA, you
could do that.
>> And we know that you work seven days a
week.
>> Um what drives you dayto day and where
exactly do you get all that energy?
I'm exhausted all the time. [laughter]
Um,
what what drives me uh I mean it's it's
some it's several things. it it's on the
one hand I I on the one hand it's as as
basic as I don't want to fail and I
don't want Nvidia to fail and uh I don't
I don't want Nvidia to fail because we
have too many uh too many people who who
are counting on me and so uh you know
it's employees as our partners as our
ecosystem uh partners is you know all of
my friends here in Taiwan I want
everybody to succeed and so there's
there's a there's a burden on on leaders
uh that want everybody to to to flourish
and to realize their dreams and to, you
know, to hopefully uh succeed with us.
And so there's a there's a there's a
burden that comes with that and and um
that gets me out of bed every day. Uh at
the same time there's a there's a
hopeful optimistic
um uh ambitious part of me that that
wants to build something that that uh
makes an impact makes a contribution. Uh
there's a there's a dreamer part of me
that that wants to create that future
and hope hope to see it in my lifetime.
And so I'm in a hurry to to uh have it
come true. Um and so it's simultaneously
the burden of the burden of of uh of
success and and wanting other people to
come along. Uh the the fear of failure
uh that that somehow because of how I
was raised uh because Nvidia has enjoyed
um and gone through a lot of very
difficult time. It was not easy to build
Nvidia. It was not easy to to uh uh to
be here today. and and all of the
struggles can never leave my body. You
know, once once you've struggled as
deeply as as Nvidia has and as I as I've
had the the benefit of, it becomes part
of your character and it never leaves
you. And so, simultaneously, all of this
is happening in my body, in my brain.
And and so,
you can't help but be, you know, always
thinking about work. Mhm. And you uh
some people have said that you still
have another 30 years running Nvidia.
What do you think about that? And what
kind of leader do you think should
succeed you?
>> I I I would like to work as long as I
can. You know,
I hope to die on the job. That would
that would be the that would be a dream
come true. [laughter]
And so so uh um I can't imagine a a more
meaningful life. I'm surrounded by my
family, my kids. Uh both of them work in
Nvidia and and I have the benefit of
seeing them all the time and I'm proud
of them and the company's proud of them
and they love the company and so I get
to see them all the time. Um, you know,
Lori Lori's been with me for for a long
time, our whole life. And and um I and
she, you know, she's been part of Nvidia
every step of the way. And aside from
aside from Lori, I don't think anyone
has been to every conference. And she's
she's been to every conference, every
speech, you know, and and um every
moment of NVIDIA, she was there. And and
so I I have the benefit
of of uh me really meaningful work um
and a company with incredible people and
and employees that that can achieve
almost anything and I'm surrounded by
the love of my parents and my family
that that you know are part of this
journey with me and so so I can't
imagine doing anything else frankly I
can't imagine doing anything else more
meaningful um with respect to the next
generation uh leadership
is about creating the conditions
um for other people to be empowered. You
know, NVIA is giant
and yet we're small company. We are the
world's smallest large company and and
that's only possible because so many
leaders at NVIDIA, so many people and
empowered to do their to do the work.
And so I constantly um uh explain our
strategy transparently. I constantly
reason about complicated situations in
front of people so that they could help
me doublech checkck my reasoning
patterns and my reasoning logic. And um
uh on the other hand, you're also
exposing them through how you think
through complicated and ambiguous
uncertain circumstances. And so the
combination of empowering people,
letting them run, um, uh, aligning early
on what our strategies are, our guard
rails are, and then reasoning in front
of people, uh, really helps everybody
become more successful, become more
empowered. Well, the next the next
generation, the next leader of Nvidia is
already working there and
uh, it's my job to cultivate hundreds of
amazing choices. And you just never know
who the right next person is. And and um
I and the and the reason for that is
because we don't know what Nvidia is
going to be like in 30 years or 10 or
20. And we don't know what the
circumstances are in this future that
artificial intelligence and that we're
help creating. And so it would be it
would be presumptuous and and arguably
even arrogant to think that I would know
what the perfect leader is going to be
in 10 20 years. They're just we're just
going to have to evolve until we we uh
we know for certain. But the one thing
that I will tell you is that the leader
um for Nvidia would have to care about
uh uh the employees, the ecosystem, the
partners more than they care about
themselves.
And a great a great leader is selfless
and uh always in service of of um uh of
of the culture of the company, the
mission of the company, the people of
the company, always in service of other
people. Uh it is very likely that that
um uh that this this leader will will uh
be in a in a in an era a time where
intelligence is a commodity that the
ability to write code, solve problems,
um even scientific discovery is arguably
completely automated. the one thing that
we value so much in my generation which
is knowledge and and technical skills
and problem solving. Um the sciences,
technologies, the maths um all of that
is like likely going to be a commodity.
And so therefore what remains what
remains is ambition and character,
imagination and um the empathy and
generosity and kindness and you know the
skills the soft skills that that defines
a person
beyond their intelligence and and so I I
think those things will will likely
become uh quite important. And then and
then and I would say um may very well be
uh the greatest asset of any leader
which is the the desire of everyone
around them to see them succeed. There
are there are leaders that you just
there are people that you just wish them
to be more successful because they're
kind to other people and they're
generous to other people and you just
want to see them succeed and there are
people who are successful and you would
hope to see them fail and and so so I I
think that the future leaders are going
to be the ones that somehow embody the
the characters um the intangibles
that that leads other people to want
them to succeed and and and be led and
to be part
I see. I hope you don't mind me going
back to the question about job cuts. How
how would you say that job cuts are
inevitable
because of AI?
>> It is very likely there will be more
jobs in 5 years than there are today.
Many more jobs.
Some jobs will be different. Some jobs
will be gone and many new jobs will be
emerged. And I can say that with almost
certainty and the reason for that is
this. The world has been growing the GDP
of the world has been growing at about
2% per year. 2% per year for 150 years.
for 150 years where there was the
industrial revolution with electricity,
information technology, transportation,
steam, you know, manufacturing equipment
all the way to personal computers and
internet and cell phones and so on so
forth and artificial intelligence. It's
been on a solid 2% per year and it's
it's incredible. And um my sense is that
well my belief is that that um all of
those technologies at the time were
transformative. Of course they were. How
you and I live our lives today and how
150 years ago people live their lives,
the industries, the companies,
my goodness, uh completely different.
And yet 2% per year. The number of jobs
that have been created in the last 150
years, incredible. The number of jobs
that will be created in the next 150
years is going to be utterly incredible.
Of course, some jobs will be very
different. Let's let's imagine that um
prosperity
uh AI has the opportunity to close the
technology divide like no technology
ever has. For example, you are a better
user of computers today as a news
reporter than at any time in history
because you can program the computer to
do whatever. If you want your own
website, if you want your own broadcast,
you can just ask the AI to help you
create it.
You're now a programmer just like I am a
programmer. And so for the first time,
AI has closed the technology divide. we
have the opportunity to bring everybody
along in this new technology revolution.
That's a very big deal. The second,
of course, AI will likely change the
shape of the services industry, the
manufacturing industry, and very also
very importantly, the consumption
industry, the entertainment industry. It
is more likely that um people are going
to consume more because we're more
prosperous. And because we're going to
consume more, it is very likely that the
leisure industry and um you know the
creation of content will enjoy more
because we'll have more time to enjoy
the content that you create. And uh
hopefully we'll have the opportunity to
travel more so that people are traveling
around the world learning about
different cultures and we can close the
close the culture divides and you know
and so there's a there's an optimistic
future that uh that uh I imagine and
facts would support my imagination of
that future and um and and I think the
the narrative that connects AI to job
loss for many of the CEOs that are doing
it. Um, it is just too lazy. It's just
too lazy. AI has just arrived. How is it
possible they're already losing jobs?
You know, how is it possible that AI
became productive and useful only six
months ago and they were they were
cancelling they were somehow laying
people off two years ago because of AI.
It doesn't make any sense. It was just
it was just a way for them to sound
smart. And I really hate that. Um I
would I think we're scaring people and
that's irresponsible. I think we should
tell a balanced story, a balanced
narrative about the potential of this
cap of this technology, the importance
of advancing it safely security
guardrailed with necessary social,
political, government, government,
industrial policies to ensure that it
advances safely. On the other hand, tell
a story that's optimistic so that people
want to be part of it. We want the young
people of this generation to engage it.
And so here's my test.
Here's my s simple test for all the
audience.
What are you advising your children to
do?
Are you advising them
to engage AI or to reject AI and be left
behind?
Are you advising them to use AI to
elevate their learning, to elevate their
profession when they can or are you
telling them don't use this technology
and let other people use it? And so all
I have no question in my mind that every
single parent is saying you have to
learn about this technology, use it
wisely, use it wisely, but use it to
elevate yourself.
if that is what they're advising their
children for what reason are they not
advising it for other people and so I
would recommend that um uh I see a
future that's op optimistic I see a
future that is has more abundance
abundance of intelligence abundance of
labor abundance of goods um is going to
therefore create opportunities for us to
consume more
>> you know so if you if you were a a
connoisseur of fashion you're going to
have a lot more a lot more opportunity
to consume that.
>> Thank you so much, Jensen. I really
enjoy your conversation.
>> Thank you very much, Victoria.
>> Thank you.